Hello, everyone.
Let's move with a very interesting problem.
And it's about finding the diameter of a tree.
I've picked up this problem from CSES , and you can easily search it and try your code over here.
So let's understand this problem.
This is nothing but you are a tree with n nodes.
And the diameter of the tree is a maximum distance between two not.
Your task is to determine the diameter of the tree.
simple
For example, we have this tree.
One, two, one, three, three, four, three, five.
So let me.
Okay.
Yup.
So here we have this tree very simple.
One, two, one, three, three, four and three, five
So here we can easily see that what will be the diameter of the tree?
The longest part in the tree will be this, this and this.
So the length of this part will be.
Basically we just count the edges in the path and not the vertexes in the path.
So the edges in the paths are three.
This is a problem which can be solved using a greedy approach.
And DP.
ahmm
I will let you guess the greedy approach and try different greedy approaches and submit them over here.
While we can discuss the DP approach.
One of the greedy approaches that I want to share is a very simple approach, which is.
What we can do is we can start from any node.
What we'll do is we'll perform a BFS and find the maximum distance from that particular node.
It's very easy, right, that since I'm starting from zero.
So this will be the maximum distance, it'll be one, one, two, two.
So basically the distance from the road node and then after performing this, what I will do is I'll
pick up the node which has the maximum distance out of all these nodes ,here we can see that we have
two distances, two nodes, all vertex, which have the maximum distance right now, which is two.
So I can pick up any one of them.
So let's I'm picking up four, so let me remove these distances
So I picked this up ,so basically what we did till now. Pick any node
Find the distance of every other node from that node.
Pick source
Find distance.
I'm just discussing one simple greedy approach.
There can be multiple greedy approaches in this, so I'll just leave it to you and you can find the distance
using BFS or DFS, whatever you feel like.
Third is pick max distance node, so I'll just pick the maximum distance Node.
If there are multiple pick any, then again now taking this max distance node as the source Nord.
As the source node.
Find the other distances so basically now starting from fourth this is distance one.
This is a other distance two.
And this is with a distance, the eight.
So from the max distance node as the source node find distance ,right
And now pick up the maximum distance
So this is one of the greedy approaches , this is applied to since pick a node so, the node
with a maximum distance initially should be a leaf node will be a leaf node , will pick that node.
And now from that node, I'll just apply one more BFS or DFS and then calculate the distances of other nodes
now.
And the other node that I'll get will be the.
Now the maximum distance that I'll get will be the diameter of the tree.
So I'll just leave this greedy approach to you and you can feel free to code it and submit it on to cses
yes.
And let's  continue with the DP approach.
Cool.
Well, yeah, let me erase this quickly.
Mm hmm.
Greedy was very easy.
Well, let's try to find the same thing using DP.
And let me quickly erase these values.
So in dynamic programming, what we can say is that whether.
The diameter will pass through that node.
Will pass through the node.
pass through vertex or it will not pass through vertex
vertex
So what we say is we generally take vertex to be current node
So what I'm saying right now is that these are simple theory that for every node
What I can do is I can see that whether Diameter passes through this node or the diameter do not pass through
that node
So what I will do is I will say let's make a quick function and let's call it F (current)
f(cur) will represent the diameter.
of the.
tree.
Or, let's say, the diameter of the
Subtree.
Of Current.
right and.
So what does this mean?
That the diameter may pass through this current or it can go in one of the children or basically
any of the nodes in the subtree of x.
For example, if I see f(1), what will be f(1)?
In this it is right now.
We can easily see that it is this particular part, the diameter.
But let me quickly change this a little bit.
And lets say this is six seven.
And let's make one more.
Yep.
And this is nine.
so right now
If I say, what is the F(1) in this?
What is that f(1) here?
So f(1), need not necessarily pass through one.
That's why I have written
Or in this case, whether diameter will pass through the vertex or it will not pass through the
vertex
So we have a state which says ,tell me what's the diameter of the subtree.
It starts from the current node.
So basically subtree of one is the whole tree.
Although the diameter which is which can be this.
path
Also it can be this path, right?
So it may or may not pass through 1.
And it can pass through three.
It can pass through five.
It can pass through 4.
So what I say is that I have a subtree.
Just imagine it this way.
You're hanging this tree.
Of course we are hanging this tree from the root node ,for three
If I want to find out what is f(3)?
f(3) means nothing but the maximum length of the path which passes through three.
Or is it in one of these subtrees of tree
cool
So  just.
Yeah.
So do not get confused.
We'll never talk about anything beyond subtree of.
3 Right.
So some of you might be thinking that.
When we talk about subtree of three, why can't this be a  part because this is also passing through 3,
right.
But this is a path that we will not consider in a recursive state in our dynamic programming state.
Why?
Because if you talk about f(3), although this part is passing through three.
But this part is not totally in the subtree of three.
I just have to figure out the path, which is in this subtree of three.
So just.
Yeah.
So here there might be some doubts.
And the doubt can be very simple that.
What if the path is like this
Only that means.
Let me quickly add one more note here.
And it's called ten eight.
So we can easily see that this will be the diameter which will be passing through three.
Also five, also seven or ten, nine, eight.
When all this bad passes through three we will not see that it will be included in F of three because
above three only means this arbitrary of a trait, but f of one will actually contain this pardon because
now we can see that.
This part is passing through F of one.
This body is passing through one artery.
But in this case, one is actually the node which is on which is with this subtree.
Correct.
So I just want to know the diameter, the maximum length of the part which passes through the current
node and goes only in the subtree of the note.
Right.
So I hope it's very easy.
It's very clear because if three, let's do the positives passing through three and going through it,
and sisters and sisters will give me the maximum time, maximum length of the but not three.
So now let's try to formulate direct relation here.
So how we left formulate the maximum length of the part that touches three and goes back eight.
So of course we have to get right.
The first cases is this one.
Whether time passes through the vertex, second cases, it does not pass through the vertex, the maximum
length of the pass.
Right.
If it passes through the verdicts, what I can see is what any non what I can do is I can try to find
the maximum land of two parts which goes in this subtree of the current node or in injured.
Can I say that?
Can I say that what is the maximum height of its two children?
Eight.
So for example, let me quickly write their height.
So this is on a level zero, this is on level one, this is on level two, this is on level three and
this is on level four eight.
Basically, what is this?
Zero one, two, three, four means that if I pick up this knowledge if four and yeah, so it is on
level four.
Right.
But what is its height from the subtree eight.
What is it, what is the maximum height of this node.
From the leave note.
Basically, I simply mean that if I have this note for I just want to know what is the deepest lent.
It has to reach a leaf node in subtree.
So let me quickly write another function.
Let's call it g i.
Eight couldn't.
So we'll just simply find nothing but the maximum length of any node in the you don't which are direct
children of the current node and the maximum language it has to do that leave node eight G current is
nothing but.
Max Lent.
Current.
Who?
Any leaf node in its subtree, which is important.
And it's statutory right.
So how we you this maximum length of and you know why are we finding this first of what do you call
it?
Because of what we can do is to find out the first part of the problem.
We can simply say, why don't I just find out D of X, which are the child of child of the current eight?
That means the maximum lander, whatever these downloads have to, is to leave, not to the sense zero.
This has to and this is one overall pick up top two, because we know that their diameter will pass
through the current and then go again to the lymph node eight.
So if I pick the maximum but then it will be very zero.
The first father time we do is coming up.
It will go to three, go to the second part.
We do the second maximum.
And finally these don't it will be nothing but one plus two plus two by this rule, because we are traversing
these two edges also which which is trying to reach the current node.
Very.
So let me quickly write this.
I will just say that if current can be.
Duplass.
Max two values.
So let me let say Max do values.
D x where x are nothing but guide of the current state.
So some of you might be wondering why.
What if you don't have to say?
Then it's very easy.
If you don't have to tell, then we just take the one.
If you don't have you on one tail, then it will be zero.
So.
Otherwise, we'll take the next two values.
Well.
So.
Yeah, so.
And now how do we figure it out?
Okay, so this is one part of cutting.
What is the second part of the current?
That means.
This father does not pass through the butter, nor if the maximum part in this ability of some particular
note does not pass us through the current note.
That means it's very simple.
What I can see is nothing but f current is nothing but max of F2 effects.
But we will take max of ethics also and two plus max of this also.
So whichever gives me the best answer, I can simply give it.
So basically, if I combine both of these equations that is sticking maximum of these two values, that
will give me the F of current eight.
Finally, let's find a reconciliation which will tell me what is G?
What was the maximum length of a bad form of a node to its leaf node in the subtree of its liberal right?
Basically, what is the length of the part of any leaf node in its approach, which is the maximum distance?
So what can be in this case can mean nothing.
But okay, let me instead of writing D X, let's write the current.
So for any current node, if I want to find out the maximum lot, but then it is nothing but whatever
is the maximum part and it's what it style note which is d of x less.
Well.
So this is very simple.
We can figure out the current and then finally using decoding we can figure out if correct.
So this is a very simple diameter for a tree to our solution.
You can try the grid your browser told you and you can also try different 3D approaches and this DPA
put it.
So in the next part I will quickly code this and either it's great thank.